Adding process log enricher documentation (#49070)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/enrichment/process-log-enricher.md

```cs
serviceCollection.AddProcessLogEnricher(options =>
{
    options.ThreadId = true;
    options.ProcessId = true;
});
```

You may also disable or enable individual options using `appsettings.json` file configuration, for example:

```json
{
    "ProcessLogEnricherOptions": {
        "ThreadId": true,
        "ProcessId": true
    }
}
```

and apply it accordingly using <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ProcessEnricherServiceCollectionExtensions.AddProcessLogEnricher(Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IServiceCollection,Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfigurationSection)>:

```cs
serviceCollection.AddProcessLogEnricher(hostBuilder.Configuration.GetSection("ProcessLogEnricherOptions"));
```

The console output after enabling both options should look like this:

```console
{
  "EventId": 0,
  "LogLevel": "Information",
  "Category": "Enrichment.Program",
  "Message": "This is a sample log message",
  "State": {
    "Message": "This is a sample log message",
    "process.pid": "12924",

>     "thread.id": "2",

Author: done :)

ms.date: 10/10/2025
---

# Process log enricher

The process enricher augments telemetry logs with process-specific information.

You can register the enrichers in an IoC container. Then, all registered enrichers are picked up automatically by the respective telemetry instances, such as logs or metrics, where they enrich the telemetry information.

## Install the package

To get started, install the [📦 Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry) NuGet package:

### [.NET CLI](#tab/dotnet-cli)

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry
```

Or, if you're using .NET 10+ SDK:

```dotnetcli
dotnet package add Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry
```

### [PackageReference](#tab/package-reference)

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry"
                  Version="*" /> <!-- Adjust version -->
```

---

## Usage

To use the process log enricher, first you enable enrichment. Then you can add the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ProcessEnricherServiceCollectionExtensions.AddProcessLogEnricher*> with default properties, as shown in the following code:

> :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/enrichment/Program.cs" highlight="13,14":::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/enrichment/Program.cs" highlight="8,9":::
```

You can register the enrichers in an IoC container. Then, all registered enrichers are picked up automatically by the respective telemetry instances, such as logs or metrics, where they enrich the telemetry information.

## Install the package

To get started, install the [📦 Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry) NuGet package:

### [.NET CLI](#tab/dotnet-cli)

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry
```

Or, if you're using .NET 10+ SDK:

```dotnetcli
dotnet package add Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry
```

### [PackageReference](#tab/package-reference)

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry"
                  Version="*" /> <!-- Adjust version -->
```

---

## Usage

To be able to use the process log enricher, first you need to enable enrichment. Then you can add the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.ProcessEnricherServiceCollectionExtensions.AddProcessLogEnricher*> with default properties, like this:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/enrichment/Program.cs" range="3-34" highlight="13,14":::

> Given this code sample, the output should be like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given this code sample, the output should be similar to the following JSON:
```
